Oh, those nutty mathematicians!

"Inventing" or "discovering" (let's not split hairs over semantics) facts about
the world via the magic of mathematics. Throughout the annals of history, math
breakthroughs often sprang to life just to solve pesky human problems. Got a
client dodging the bill? Introducing negative numbers, your new best friend for
keeping track of financial freeloaders!

But let's shove business aside for a moment, shall we? I'm here to spin a yarn—a
quirky saga about how mathematics evolved from a hoity-toity hobby for the
well-heeled into something utterly AUTOMATED, liberating the masses to gleefully
ignore the mechanics of calculus and trigonometry. Now, anyone can afford to be
oblivious to the mathematical sorcery powering the devices in their pockets.
😮‍💨

🚀 Strap in for a jaunt in the wayback machine! Let’s crank this baby way, way
back—past the trendy tech of Vercel and Next.js, way before React started to
react. We're talking about a time when discoveries were named by lone
eccentrics, not faceless corporate giants.

Look! There's Mike Bostock, doodling the first drafts of his D3 masterpiece!
Over there—Mr. Doob, spinning up Three.js to splash old-school demo scene
aesthetics across the burgeoning web. But hold your horses—we're diving deeper.
We just blew past 2009, nodding at \_why the lucky stiff as he cheekily upends
the Rails community with his cunning code concoctions. And there’s John Resig,
bending browser quirks to his will.

Spotlight on Frank DeRemer in 1969, obsessing over his PhD thesis on the Look
Ahead Left to Right (LALR) parsing algorithm, a beacon of logic that guided
programming until the early 2000s. Not far, there’s Donald Knuth at Bell Labs,
hammering out the seminal research on LR parsing algorithms. And let's tip our
hats to Noam Chomsky, also huddled at Bell Labs, sketching the Chomsky hierarchy
that would crisply separate formal grammars from the murky waters of natural
language.

🦕 Now entering the digital Stone Age... Here we find the US and Soviet Russia
neck-and-neck in a computing showdown. The Soviets just tripped over the
balanced ternary numbering system—brilliant, yet doomed to obscurity. Watch as
they load up the first magnetic tape reels onto mainframes the size of whales.

We’re not going all the way back to the cryptic origins of computer science,
which trace back to the dawn of natural numbers. We’ll stop here in the 1940s,
right before the globe tumbles into WWII.

Remember, back then, computing was purely theoretical—a playground for
intellectuals with no actual hardware to test their wild theories. Ah, the good
ol’ days, when digital dreams were just that—dreams!
