![A story about sobriety: I choose to live](https://storage.googleapis.com/hox-io-blog-assets/2024-06-05-sobriety.webp)

I don’t yap about this nearly enough, but let’s tear the scab off, shall we?

I just played secretary at my first AA meeting this week. Quite the hoopla. I’d
tangoed with the whole AA routine before, but it didn’t quite shimmy into place.
I used to dodge anything smelling like “service to others.” Accountability? Not
my jam. Being someone else’s crutch? Even less so.

2020 rolled in like a wrecking ball, and there I was, back in the arms of my
addictions, darker and twistier than ever. I didn't know who I was anymore.
Sure, I managed to stay sober for my son, but alone, my apartment became a
guilt-ridden lair of regret and relentless inner demons. My solace? The bottle.
I guzzled it like it was the antidote to life itself.

Living up to my family’s oxen-inspired name (Oksendahl – "valley of the ox"),
I’ve got a skull thicker than a concrete milkshake. It takes countless run-ins
with the same brick wall for anything to stick. My self-medication routine was a
sad attempt to mute the toxicity upstairs, a slow dance with a yearning for
final, blissful silence. Seventeen years of this chaotic waltz had its claws in
me deep.

2020 also gifted me with a divorce, right in the Covid abyss. The virtual nature
of the divorce proceedings left me helpless, leading to a default judgment that
handed my ex-wife full custody. We’d been co-parenting since 2021, but nothing
official. Fast forward to summer 2023, my erratic behavior triggered her to
clamp down, filing for a temporary family plan, pulling custody from my grasp.

With my son out of the picture, sobriety was like swimming against a tsunami.
Back in the AA grind, but finding a sponsor? Impossible. Every sunrise marked
another “day one.” Financially sinking from a trifecta of starting a business,
the custody battle, and my liquid therapy, I hit rock bottom.

Surrendering wasn’t my style, but reality smacked me hard enough to reconsider.
I had to ditch my lawyer, halt the custody clash, and start being brutally
honest – with myself, with AA folks, and with the custody circus.
Entrepreneurship dreams on hold, I desperately hunted for any job to stave off
bankruptcy.

Months of silence from the job market, but this week? Four interviews. I was AA
meeting secretary on Monday, and I’m giddy to report: I know jack-all except
that my son is my non-negotiable.

Addictions and resentments won’t steer this ship anymore. The future’s a big,
hazy question mark, but relinquishing control is my new creed. My “will to
power” kept me afloat, until it didn’t. When life flipped the script, I torched
my own kingdom and everything near it. If my tale of emotional wasteland saves
even one soul from my path, it’s worth it. I’ll keep sharing my saga with other
addicts, hoping to pull a few back from the brink, figuratively and literally.

I choose to live.

[Here’s a soundtrack to this
rollercoaster](https://open.spotify.com/album/49K6hYDEr5M3GxIBBxlPf9).
